How much should I contribute to 401k account? 
If you have a 401(k) plan, you should contribute enough from each paycheck to take advantage of any match that your employer offers. Otherwise, you are losing out on part of your compensation and leaving free money on the table.
How much to put in your 401(k) is going to depend on your individual retirement goals, existing resources, lifestyle, and family decisions. A common rule of thumb, though, is to set aside at least 10% of your gross earnings as a start.

Options for answers depending on age:
30 and below
By age 30, you should have one time your annual salary saved. For example, if you're earning $50,000, you should have $50,000 banked for retirement. 
Most financial advisors agree that 10% to 20% of your salary is a good amount to contribute toward your retirement fund.
In any case, if your company offers a 401(k) matching contribution, you should put in at least enough to get the maximum amount. A typical match might be 3% of your salary or 50% of the first 6% of the employee contribution.

31 - 40
By age 40, you should have three times your annual salary already saved. For example, if you're earning $50,000, you should have $150,000 banked for retirement.
Most financial advisors agree that 10% to 20% of your salary is a good amount to contribute toward your retirement fund.
In any case, if your company offers a 401(k) matching contribution, you should put in at least enough to get the maximum amount. A typical match might be 3% of your salary or 50% of the first 6% of the employee contribution.

41 - 50
By age 50, you should have six times your salary in an account. For example, if you're earning $50,000, you should have $300,000 banked for retirement.
Most financial advisors agree that 10% to 20% of your salary is a good amount to contribute toward your retirement fund.
In any case, if your company offers a 401(k) matching contribution, you should put in at least enough to get the maximum amount. A typical match might be 3% of your salary or 50% of the first 6% of the employee contribution.

51 - 60
By age 60, you should have eight times your salary working for you. For example, if you're earning $50,000, you should have $400,000 banked for retirement.
Most financial advisors agree that 10% to 20% of your salary is a good amount to contribute toward your retirement fund.
In any case, if your company offers a 401(k) matching contribution, you should put in at least enough to get the maximum amount. A typical match might be 3% of your salary or 50% of the first 6% of the employee contribution.

60 and above
If you are 60 years old or above, your total savings total goal is 10 times the amount of your current annual salary. So, for example, if you're earning $75,000 per year, you should have $750,000 saved.
Most financial advisors agree that 10% to 20% of your salary is a good amount to contribute toward your retirement fund.
In any case, if your company offers a 401(k) matching contribution, you should put in at least enough to get the maximum amount. A typical match might be 3% of your salary or 50% of the first 6% of the employee contribution.

There is one follow-up question to ask user related to how much should I contribute to 401k account: How old are you?
There is no follow-up action to prompt user related to how much should I contribute to 401k account

What should I do with my old retirement account?
There are four options you should do with your old retirement account. 
1. Transfer to an IRA. You can sign up for an IRA with a provider of your choice. Depending on the provider, they might have rollover service available online or you could contact the provider to have them handle for you.
2. Transfer to your current 401k. If you have a new employer retirement account set up, you can choose to rollover to your current plan.
3. Depending on the old account balance and your old account plan rules, you might be able to leave the plan as it is.
4. You can cash out the old account balance, however early penalty and fees might apply. 

There is no follow-up question to ask user related to the question What should I do with my old retirement account?
There is one follow-up action to prompt user related to the question What should I do with my old retirement account?: Account rollover

How does account rollover work?
There are two types of rollover: Direct and Indirect rollover.
Direct rollover means your funds are transferred directly from your old account to your new account.
Indirect rollover means you receive a check from an old retirement account and deposit it into the new account. You generally have 60 days to do this, or you risk triggering a big tax bill.

There is no follow-up question to ask user related to the question How does account rollover work?
There is one follow-up action to prompt user related to the question How does account rollover work: Account rollover

Can I rollover my old 401k to a Roth IRA?
If you have a traditional 401(k) or 403(b), you can roll over your money into a Roth IRA. However, this would be considered a "Roth conversion," so you'd have to report the money as income at tax time and pay ordinary income tax on it.

There is no follow-up question to ask user related to the question Can I rollover my old 401k to a Roth IRA?
There is one follow-up action to prompt user related to the question Can I rollover my old 401k to a Roth IRA?: Account rollover

Can I rollover my old retirement account to an IRA?
Absolutely, if you're switching jobs or retiring, rolling over your 401(k) to a Traditional IRA may give you more flexibility in managing your savings. Traditional IRAs are tax-deferred retirement accounts.

There is no follow-up question to ask user related to the question Can I rollover my old retirement account to an IRA?
There is one follow-up action to prompt user related to the question Can I rollover my old retirement account to an IRA?: Account rollover

Are there any minimum contribution percentage or amount I need to contribute to my 401k account?
There is no minimum amount you are required to contribute to your 401(k).

There is no follow-up question to ask user related to the question Are there any minimum contribution percentage or amount I need to contribute to my 401k account?
There is one follow-up action to prompt user related to the question Are there any minimum contribution percentage or amount I need to contribute to my 401k account?: Maximize retirement saving

Are there any maximum contribution percentage or amount I am allowed to contribute to my 401k account?
The limit on employee elective deferrals (for traditional and safe harbor plans) is: $22,500 in 2023 ($20,500 in 2022, $19,500 in 2021 and 2020; and $19,000 in 2019), subject to cost-of-living adjustments.

There is no follow-up question to ask user related to the question Are there any maximum contribution percentage or amount I am allowed to contribute to my 401k account?
There is one follow-up action to prompt user related to the question Are there any maximum contribution percentage or amount I am allowed to contribute to my 401k account?: Maximize retirement saving

Should I open Roth IRA or Traditional IRA?
Two main questions to consider while choosing Roth IRA or Traditional IRA are the income limit and tax preference. First, there is income limitation for Roth IRA contribution, not every one is eligible to open and contribute to Roth IRA. In 2023, the income limit for single filer is $138,000, married and filled jointly is $218,000. 
Second, when your income is lower than the set limit, you should also consider the difference in tax benefits between two accounts. If you prefer paying tax now and enjoy tax-free withdrawal when you retire, Roth maybe better, but if you prefer enjoy tax-free contribution now, you might choose Traditional IRA.

There is no follow-up question to ask user related to the question Should I open Roth IRA or Tradition IRA
There is no follow-up action to prompt user related to the question Should I open Roth IRA or Tradition IRA