How much should one contribute to 401k account? 
If you have a 401(k) plan, you should contribute enough from each paycheck to take advantage of any match that your employer offers. Otherwise, you are losing out on part of your compensation and leaving free money on the table.
How much to put in your 401(k) is going to depend on your individual retirement goals, existing resources, lifestyle, and family decisions. A common rule of thumb, though, is to set aside at least 10% of your gross earnings as a start.

There is one follow-up question to ask user related to how much should one contribute to 401k account to provide better advice: How old are you?

Options for answers depending on age:
30 and below
By age 30, you should have one time your annual salary saved. For example, if you're earning $50,000, you should have $50,000 banked for retirement. 
Most financial advisors agree that 10% to 20% of your salary is a good amount to contribute toward your retirement fund.
In any case, if your company offers a 401(k) matching contribution, you should put in at least enough to get the maximum amount. A typical match might be 3% of your salary or 50% of the first 6% of the employee contribution.

31 - 40
By age 40, you should have three times your annual salary already saved. For example, if you're earning $50,000, you should have $150,000 banked for retirement.
Most financial advisors agree that 10% to 20% of your salary is a good amount to contribute toward your retirement fund.
In any case, if your company offers a 401(k) matching contribution, you should put in at least enough to get the maximum amount. A typical match might be 3% of your salary or 50% of the first 6% of the employee contribution.

41 - 50
By age 50, you should have six times your salary in an account. For example, if you're earning $50,000, you should have $300,000 banked for retirement.
Most financial advisors agree that 10% to 20% of your salary is a good amount to contribute toward your retirement fund.
In any case, if your company offers a 401(k) matching contribution, you should put in at least enough to get the maximum amount. A typical match might be 3% of your salary or 50% of the first 6% of the employee contribution.

51 - 60
By age 60, you should have eight times your salary working for you. For example, if you're earning $50,000, you should have $400,000 banked for retirement.
Most financial advisors agree that 10% to 20% of your salary is a good amount to contribute toward your retirement fund.
In any case, if your company offers a 401(k) matching contribution, you should put in at least enough to get the maximum amount. A typical match might be 3% of your salary or 50% of the first 6% of the employee contribution.

60 and above
If you are 60 years old or above, your total savings total goal is 10 times the amount of your current annual salary. So, for example, if you're earning $75,000 per year, you should have $750,000 saved.
Most financial advisors agree that 10% to 20% of your salary is a good amount to contribute toward your retirement fund.
In any case, if your company offers a 401(k) matching contribution, you should put in at least enough to get the maximum amount. A typical match might be 3% of your salary or 50% of the first 6% of the employee contribution.


What is my risk tolerance?
All investments involve some degree of risk and knowing their risk tolerance level helps investors plan their entire portfolio, determining how they invest. Based on how much risk they can tolerate, investors are classified as aggressive, moderate, and conservative.
Risk tolerance assessments are available online, including risk-related surveys or questionnaires. An investor may also want to review historical returns for different asset classes to determine the volatility of the various financial instruments. 

There are two follow-up questions to ask user related to what is my risk tolerance?
1. If you had $20,000 to invest for a 10 year period, which portfolio would you prefer?
2. Let's say your total retirement savings portfolio declines in value by 15% in one year. When you selected this portfolio, you believed it was the most appropriate for your retirement funding needs. Which of the following are you more likely to do?

There are two questions to classify your risk tolerance. 
AA - Conservative Risk Tolerance
AB - Moderate Risk Tolerance
BA - Conservative Risk Tolerance
BB - Moderate Risk Tolerance
CA - Conservative Risk Tolerance
CB - Aggressive Risk Tolerance
DA - Conservative Risk Tolerance
DB - Aggressive Risk Tolerance



Aggressive Risk Tolerance
An aggressive investor, or one with a high-risk tolerance, is willing to risk losing money to get potentially better results.1 Aggressive investors tend to be market-savvy with an understanding of the volatility of securities and follow strategies for achieving higher than average returns.
Their investments emphasize capital appreciation rather than income or preserving their principal investment. This investor's asset allocation commonly includes stocks and little or no allocation to bonds or cash.

Moderate Risk Tolerance
Moderate investors want to grow their money without losing too much. Their goal is to weigh opportunities and risks and this investor's approach is sometimes described as a “balanced” strategy.
Commonly, moderate investors develop a portfolio that includes a mixture of stocks and bonds, perhaps as a 50/50 or 60/40 structure.2

Conservative Risk Tolerance
Conservative investors are willing to accept little to no volatility in their investment portfolios. Retirees or those close to retirement age are often included in this category as they may be unwilling to risk a loss to their principal investment and have a short-term investment strategy.
A conservative investor targets vehicles that are guaranteed and highly liquid. Risk-averse individuals commonly opt for bank certificates of deposit (CDs), money markets, or U.S. Treasuries for income and preservation of capital.

