V1
Question 1 - What is an IRA?
With an IRA, you get a practical way to start or supplement your retirement savings. And it comes with tax breaks to
boot.


The basic definition
An IRA (individual retirement account) is a personal, tax-deferred account the IRS created to give investors an easy way
to save for retirement.

What it does

It provides an excellent opportunity for your retirement money to grow and compound faster than it would in a taxable
account.

What you can do

You can open an IRA on your own through almost any bank, brokerage company, insurance firm, or investment company.

And you can save your way for your retirement through the wide variety of investment choices that an IRA offers.



Source:

⁠
https://investor.vanguard.com/investor-resources-education/iras/what-is-an-ira⁠



Question 2 - 401(k) vs. IRA?
How much you save now may determine how comfortable you are in retirement. Combining 401(k)s and IRAs can make it
even comfier.

If your employer offers a retirement plan, like a 401(k) or 403(b), and will match a percentage of your contributions, you
should definitely take advantage of it—after all, it's free money for you. Plus you'll have a tax-deferred account that
makes saving a cinch through automatic payroll deduction.

If your employer doesn't offer a plan, then an IRA can be a good start to your retirement savings and another opportunity
for your earnings to grow tax-free.
Facts & figures you need to know

Column 1              401(k)                                    IRA

Who can participate   Anyone who works for an employer that Effective for 2020 contributions and
                      offers a plan                         later, anyone with earned income
                                                            can open and contribute to a
                                                            traditional or Roth IRA. For 2019
                                                            contributions and earlier, you could
                                                            not make contributions to a
                                                            traditional IRA after age 70½.

How much you can      If you're under age 50, your annual       If you're under age 50, your annual
invest                contribution limit is $20,500 for 2022    contribution limit is $6,000 for 2022
                      and $22,500 for 2023.                     and $6,500 for 2023.
                      If you're age 50 or older, your annual    If you're age 50 or older, your annual
                      contribution limit is $27,000 for 2022    contribution limit is $7,000 for 2022
                      and $30,000 for 2023.                     and $7,500 for 2023.
                                                                Get details on IRA contribution limits
                                                                & deadlines

What you can invest   Most employers limit you to a             You can invest in a wide variety of
in                    preselected list of investment choices.   mutual funds, exchange-traded
                                                                funds (ETFs), and individual stocks
                                                                and bonds.
                                                                Pick investments for your IRA



How to get started    Your employer may automatically enroll    You can open an IRA on your own
                      you in the plan and offer you an easy     through almost any bank, brokerage
                      way to contribute through automatic       company, insurance firm, or
                      payroll deduction.                        investment company.
                                                                Learn how to open your IRA




Eligible for both? Go for it
The good news is that you don't necessarily have to think IRA versus 401(k). You can save with both as long as you're
qualified and heed contribution and income limits.

Source:

⁠
https://investor.vanguard.com/investor-resources-education/iras/401k-vs-ira⁠




Question 3 - Roth vs. Traditional IRAs?
Start simple, with your age and income. Then compare the IRA rules and tax benefits.
IRA eligibility
Column 1                 ROTH IRA                                    TRADITIONAL IRA

Is there an age limit?   You can contribute to a Roth IRA at any     As a result of changes made by the SECURE Act, you
                         age.                                        can make contributions to a traditional IRA for 2020 or
                                                                     later regardless of your age.

How does my              The amount you can contribute to a Roth     The amount you can contribute to a traditional IRA:
income affect how        IRA:                                        Can't exceed the amount of income you earned that
much I can               Can't exceed the amount of income you       year.
contribute?              earned that year.                           Can't exceed the IRS-imposed limits (see below).
                         Can't exceed the IRS-imposed limits (see    There are no additional restrictions based on your
                         below).                                     income.
                         Could be reduced—or even eliminated—
                         based on your modified adjusted gross
                         income (MAGI).
                         Get details on Roth IRA income limits

Can minors or            Minors and nonworking spouses may be        Minors and nonworking spouses may be able to
nonworking spouses       able to contribute, but check the special   contribute, but check the special income rules first.
contribute to an IRA?    income rules first.
IRA contribution rules
Column 1               ROTH IRA                                        TRADITIONAL IRA

What are the           For the 2022 tax year:                          For the 2022 tax year:
contribution limits?   If you're under age 50, you can contribute      If you're under age 50, you can contribute up to $6,000.
                       up to $6,000.                                   If you're age 50 or older, you can contribute up to
                       If you're age 50 or older, you can contribute   $7,000.
                       up to $7,000.
                                                                       For the 2023 tax year:
                       For the 2023 tax year:                          If you're under age 50, you can contribute up to $6,500.
                       If you're under age 50, you can contribute      If you're age 50 or older, you can contribute up to
                       up to $6,500.                                   $7,500.
                       If you're age 50 or older, you can contribute   Limits could be lower based on your income.
                       up to $7,500.                                   Get details on IRA contribution limits & deadlines
                       Limits could be lower based on your
                       income.
                       Get details on IRA contribution limits &
                       deadlines

Can I claim my         You can't deduct your Roth IRA                  You may be able to deduct some or all of your
contribution as a      contribution.                                   traditional IRA contributions. The deductible amount
deduction on my tax                                                    could be reduced or eliminated if you or your spouse is
return?                                                                already covered by a retirement plan at work.
                                                                       Get details on IRA deductions

What's the deadline    The deadline is typically April 15 of the       The deadline is typically April 15 of the following year.
for making             following year.
contributions in a
given year?

How much money do You'll need $1,000 for any Vanguard Target           You'll need $1,000 for any Vanguard Target Retirement
I need to open a  Retirement Fund or for Vanguard STAR®                Fund or for Vanguard STAR Fund.
Vanguard IRA®?    Fund.                                                Most other Vanguard funds require an initial investment
                  Most other Vanguard funds require an                 of at least $3,000, though some have higher minimums.
                  initial investment of at least $3,000, though
                  some have higher minimums.
IRA withdrawal rules
Column 1                 ROTH IRA                                     TRADITIONAL IRA

Will I pay taxes on      You'll never pay taxes on withdrawals of     You'll pay ordinary income tax on withdrawals of all
withdrawals?             your Roth IRA contributions. And you won't   traditional IRA earnings and on any contributions you
                         pay taxes on withdrawals of your earnings    originally deducted on your taxes.
                         as long as you take them after you've        Get details on IRA withdrawals
                         reached age 59½ and you've met the 5-
                         year-holding-period requirement.
                         Get details on IRA withdrawals

Is there a penalty for   There are no penalties on withdrawals of     With a traditional IRA, there's a 10% federal penalty tax
withdrawals taken        Roth IRA contributions. But there's a 10%    on withdrawals of both contributions and earnings.
before age 59½?          federal penalty tax on withdrawals of
                         earnings.                                    Exceptions to the penalty tax
                         Exceptions to the penalty tax

Will I have to take      Roth IRAs have no RMDs during your           Due to changes to federal law that took effect on
required minimum         lifetime.                                    January 1, 2023, the age at which you must begin
distributions                                                         taking RMDs differs depending on when you were born.
(RMDs)?                                                               If you reached age 72 on or before December 31, 2022,
                                                                      you were already required to take your RMD and must
                                                                      continue satisfying that requirement. However, if you
                                                                      had not yet reached age 72 by December 31, 2022, you
                                                                      must take your first RMD from your traditional IRA by
                                                                      April 1 of the year after you reached age 73.
                                                                      For each subsequent year, you'll need to take your
                                                                      annual RMD by December 31.
                                                                      Get details on RMDs




Question 4 - What is an IRA Roth conversion? Should I do it?
Would converting from a traditional IRA to a Roth IRA be a smart move for you? Understand the tax implications before
you decide.


The benefits of a Roth conversion
A Roth conversion refers to taking all or part of the balance of an existing traditional IRA and moving it into a Roth IRA.


Why you might convert a traditional IRA to a Roth IRA
Enjoy tax-free withdrawals in retirement

When taking withdrawals from a traditional IRA, you'd have to pay taxes on the money your investments earned—and on
any contributions you originally deducted on your taxes.

With a Roth IRA, as long as you meet certain requirements, all of your withdrawals are tax-free.

Watch your money grow tax-free for longer

Traditional IRAs force you to take required minimum distributions (RMDs) every year after you reach age 73*, regardless
of whether you actually need the money. So you lose the tax-free growth on the money you had to withdraw.

On the other hand, Roth IRAs don't have RMDs during your lifetime, so your money can stay in the account and keep
growing tax-free.
*Due to changes to federal law that took effect on January 1, 2023, the age at which you must begin taking RMDs differs
depending on when you were born. If you reached age 72 on or before December 31, 2022, you were already required to
take your RMD and must continue satisfying that requirement. However, if you had not yet reached age 72 by December
31, 2022, you must take your first RMD from your traditional IRA by April 1 of the year after you reached age 73.

Leave a tax-free inheritance to your heirs

The people who inherit your Roth IRA will have to take RMDs, but they won't have to pay any federal income tax on their
withdrawals as long as the account's been open for at least 5 years.

A conversion can get you into a Roth IRA—even if your income is too high

The conversion would be part of a 2-step process, often referred to as a "backdoor" strategy.

First, place your contribution in a traditional IRA—which has no income limits. Then, move the money into a Roth IRA
using a Roth conversion.


But make sure you understand the tax consequences before using this strategy.


Other questions to consider
Deciding whether to convert to a Roth IRA hinges on issues like your tax rate now versus later, the tax bill you'll have to
pay to convert, and your future plans for your estate. And remember, the conversion will be permanent—you can't revert
the money back to a traditional IRA.

It's best to talk with a tax advisor before you make your decision. In the meantime, here are a few things to consider.

Will you need the money in 5 years or less?

There's a 5-year holding period on withdrawals of money that were part of a Roth conversion. So if you think you'll need
the money within that time, you could end up owing the taxes you were hoping to minimize with a conversion.

Will you end up in a higher tax bracket?

All or a portion of the money you convert could be considered "reportable income" by the IRS. If you're on the cusp of
the next tax bracket, there's a chance you'll get bumped up in the year you convert.

To avoid this, consider converting a portion of your traditional IRA. This could help you:


 • Stay out of that higher tax bracket.
 • Spread the taxes related to the conversion over a few years instead of getting hit with the entire bill in 1 year.

Will your tax bracket be higher now or later?

No one really knows how tax rates could change over the next 5, 15, or 25 years.

If you believe your tax rate is lower now than it will be when you start taking withdrawals, a conversion may look
promising because you'll pay conversion taxes while you're in a lower tax bracket and enjoy tax-free Roth IRA
withdrawals later (when the higher tax bracket won't matter).

But if you believe your tax rate is higher now than it will be when you start taking withdrawals, a conversion could cost
you more in taxes now than you'd save with tax-free withdrawals later.

So what do you do? It may help to "diversify" your taxes—in other words, pay some of the taxes now (when you're still
building your retirement savings) and save some for later (when you need that money to cover expenses in retirement).

Give this some thought and talk with your tax advisor about what might be best for you.
Where will you get the money to pay the conversion taxes?

Before you use money from your IRA to pay the tax bill, consider the following:

Short-term consequences

The money taken out of your IRA to pay conversion taxes would be considered a distribution. This could result in even
higher taxes in the year you convert.

In addition, if you're younger than age 59½ and you withdraw money from your IRA to pay conversion-related taxes, you
could also face a 10% federal penalty on that withdrawal.

Long-term consequences

You'll lose the chance for that money to compound and grow tax-free in your IRA—which means less money when you
need it in retirement.



Question 5 - What is asset allocation?
As you decide which investments to buy, start with the big picture, not the details.


Points to know
 • If you start building your portfolio by finding the right mix of asset types, you'll have more control over how risky your
    portfolio is.
 • There are no "good" or "bad" allocations—you'll need to find the one that's right for you based on your own situation.


How investing is like the weather
Imagine you're relocating and you prefer sunny, dry weather. How will you make sure you pick a new home in a place
you're going to enjoy? Just checking today's weather won't tell you much. To know whether a certain location meets your
needs, you'd have to understand more about its overall climate.


Start with your climate, not your 5-day forecast
Asset allocation—the way you divide your portfolio among asset classes—is the first thing you should consider when
getting ready to purchase investments, because it has the biggest effect on the way your portfolio will act.

Just like it's not a great idea to base your relocation on a current run of nice weather in a random city, choosing
investments on a whim is unlikely to be a winning strategy over the long term.

Different asset classes tend to act in specific ways, kind of like the investing climate they inhabit. By choosing how to
divide your portfolio, you have a certain amount of control over the experience you'll have as an investor.

There's no "best" asset allocation, just like there's no "perfect" climate for everyone—it all depends on what makes you
comfortable and gives you a good shot at meeting your goals.

⁠
See more about the risks of different investment types⁠


How important is asset allocation?
Extensive research has shown that, if you have a diversified portfolio, a whopping 88% of your experience (the volatility
you encounter and the returns you earn) can be traced back to your asset allocation.*
In other words, your experience will be very consistent with that of any other diversified investor with the same asset
allocation, no matter which specific investments they choose.

In the same way, if you move to San Diego, your overall weather will be very similar to that of someone living in Los
Angeles. It won't matter very much which of those cities you choose or what month you move there—what's important is
that you're living in Southern California and not New England.


Once I know my asset allocation, what's next?
Within the broad categories of stocks and bonds, there are many subtypes that have specific characteristics.
Depending on your goal, you may choose to invest in some of these specific subtypes.

Use
⁠   stocks to add the opportunity for growth⁠

⁠
Use bonds for income & additional stability⁠

Whichever investments you choose, it's important to make sure you lower your risk through diversification.



Question 6 - What are the risks of different investment types?
The 3 main types of assets all have different levels of risk and potential reward. You can mix them in order to lower your
chance of losing money.


Points to know
 • Of the 3 main asset classes, cash is the safest, followed by bonds and then stocks.
 • Safer investments also have lower average returns.

 • By mixing investments, you can get a balance of both stability and growth potential.


What are the 3 asset types?
Cash (short-term reserves) & money market funds

Main goal: stability. You probably won't lose money with these investments, but you won't gain much either.

Main risk: The rate at which you earn money could be lower than the rate of inflation.

Average return over time: 3.5% a year before inflation, 0.6% a year after inflation.*

Percentage of years with a negative return: 0%.

⁠Find out more about cash


Bonds & bond funds

Main goals: getting a moderate return in exchange for a moderate amount of risk; getting a stream of income; offsetting
the larger risk of stock investments.

⁠
Bonds can be domestic (from the United States) or international. Having both in your portfolio helps spread out your risk
even more.

Main risks: Because bond prices and interest rates move in opposite directions, rising interest rates could push bond
prices down. The bond's issuer could stop making promised payments or be unable to repay the principal.

Average return over time (for U.S. bonds): 5.5% a year before inflation, 2.5% a year after inflation.*
Percentage of years with a negative return: 16%.

⁠Find out more about using bonds for income & stability


Stocks & stock funds

Main goal: getting a larger return in exchange for a larger amount of risk.

Stocks can also be domestic or international. As with bonds, it's smart to consider holding both.

Main risks: Stock prices could drop for a variety of reasons, including poor performance of certain companies and
concern about the economy. Dips in the stock market tend to be worse than in the bond market.

Average return over time (for U.S. stocks): 10.2% a year before inflation, 7.1% a year after inflation.*

Percentage of years with a negative return: 28%.

Find
⁠    out more about using stocks to add the opportunity for growth⁠


How does mixing investments lower risk?
As you can see, stocks, on average, have the highest potential return. Adding bonds tends to shrink the range of
possible outcomes you could face every year—creating a lower opportunity for returns but also a reduced risk of loss.

If you have a long timeline (10 years or more) and a very high risk tolerance, you might be fine with an all-stock portfolio.
But if you need your money in less than a year or you're very conservative, you might need to keep your money in cash.

If you fall somewhere in the middle, your portfolio should be made up of a variety of asset types, giving you a more
moderate level of portfolio risk.

⁠
Find out more about getting the right asset allocation⁠

Adding bonds tends to lower both risk and potential return



Question 7 - When should I start saving for retirement?
Short answer: as soon as you begin working. Too late for that? Remember that saving will be easiest if you start now.


The amazing power of beginning early
Who wants to be a millionaire?

For many people, having a million dollars might seem like being elected President—a worthy but unattainable goal.

But getting to a million might not be that hard if you know the secret: time.

If you give your savings enough time to grow, you'll only need relatively small investments of money—made consistently
—to wind up with a pretty big balance.

How much do you think you'd need to save each year in order to reach a goal of a million dollars? $20,000? $50,000?

In fact, if you save just under $4,500 per year over a 45-year career, you could have over $1 million by the time you retire.
And if you have the opportunity to invest in a retirement plan that offers a matching contribution from your employer,
your yearly investment could be as small as $2,200.


Make retirement your first priority, especially early on
It might seem backwards to worry about the last money you'll need before you think about meeting any other financial
goals. But because compounding is so powerful, starting early gives you more flexibility later on in life.

Imagine you start saving at age 25 and dutifully put away $10,000 a year, including any matching contributions your
employer offers. But at age 40, you need to stop saving for some reason.

Your friend starts saving at age 35 and saves the same $10,000 a year for the next 30 years, until you both retire.

At that point, all else equal, you'll have more money than your friend, despite having put away only half as much.


Starting late? Turn up the dial on your contributions
Making the most of the early years of your career is one way to hit your retirement savings goal—and probably the
easiest—but it's not the only way. If you have less time to save for retirement, you'll simply need to save more each year.

For example, as we saw above, if your goal is to have $1 million at age 65 and you save just under $4,500 each year
starting at age 20, there's a good chance you'd meet your goal.

If you start at age 30 instead, you'll have to save about $9,000 each year for the same chance at reaching your goal.

Beginning at age 40? You'll need to save about $18,000 a year. And if you wait until age 50, you'll need to put away over
$40,000 a year to give yourself a good shot at reaching your goal.*

In other words, no matter what your current age, you'll always be better off starting now rather than waiting until later.



Question 8 - How much should I save for retirement?
Your goal amount will depend on the lifestyle and retirement date you want as well as the other sources of income you'll
have.


Just getting started? Save what you can
If retirement is decades away, setting a specific goal amount is probably unnecessary. For now, focus on:

1. Immediately saving at least enough to get the full match offered by your employer plan, if you have one. This is free
   money—don't let it pass you by.
2. Working your way up to 12%–15% of your pay, including any employer match. For example, you could increase your
   savings rate 1% every year until you reach your target rate. This should get you in the ballpark of what you'll need.

Vanguard did a study that shows average retirement plan account balances by age as of 2018. For people under age 25,
the average account balance was $4,773. For people age 25 to age 34, the average account balance was $24,728. For
people age 35 to age 44, the average account balance was $68,935. For people age 45 to age 54, the average account
balance was $129,051. For people age 55 to age 64, the average account balance was $190,505. For people age 65 and
over, the average account balance was $209,984.

Source: Vanguard, How America Saves 2018. This study examined employer retirement plans (and their participants)
managed by Vanguard. Amounts reflect the average balance per account.


Closer to retirement, narrow in on your goal
Two big factors weigh heavily on your retirement savings needs: how many years you're going to spend in retirement and
how much you're going to need to withdraw each year.

Plan to spend at least 30 years in retirement—longer if you think you'll retire early. Medical advances are consistently
extending the average lifespan.
Even if you don't plan to retire early, illness or other responsibilities could prevent you from working as long as you
expected, extending your retirement on both ends.

Figuring out how much you're going to withdraw each year can also be a little tricky.

After you estimate your expected budget—which will depend on the lifestyle you expect to live in retirement—you'll need
to take into account other income (like Social Security and any pensions or rental income you're expecting, for example)
and calculate the difference.

⁠
Find out when you might have enough to retire⁠


What do others do?
In 2014, the average age people expected to retire was between 66 and 67. However, the actual age at which people did
retire was 61.

Source: Gallup Poll Social Series, May 2018.



Question 9 - What is a Required Minimum Distribution (RMD)?
Once you reach RMD age, you must withdraw at least a minimum amount—your required minimum distribution—each
year from your tax-deferred retirement savings accounts. This includes your IRAs (with the exception of Roth IRAs) and
any qualified retirement accounts you hold with a former employer.



Question 10 - When can I retire?
When can I retire? It's a simple question, but knowing how much you need to retire can be tricky.


Start with this rule of thumb
As you're deciding when to retire, you'll need to think about how much money you're likely to spend each year.

Financial planners often tell people to plan to spend 75%–85% of their current income once they retire. It's an estimate
based on the fact that, once you retire, you should be spending less on:

 • Payroll taxes.
 • Debt, assuming you paid much of it off before retiring.
 • Retirement savings.

 • Everyday expenses like gas and clothes for work.

However, this "rule" doesn't work for everyone. Don't forget to consider any additional expenses you might be expecting,
like:

 • Expensive travel or other lifestyle purchases (for example, a boat or second home).

 • Higher-than-average health care expenses.
 • College tuition or other gifts to family members.

If you foresee any of these expenses in your future, you might need to increase your target to 100% or more of your
current income.

Social Security (and potentially a pension) will give you some income, but the rest will need to come from your savings.
Question 11 - How do I plan for retirement?
You're in the homestretch! The 5 to 10 years before you retire is a critical time for planning to meet your goal.


See how you could benefit from expert advice
We believe anyone can be a successful investor by following some basic principles.

But even if you've been investing solo for decades, think about whether you might benefit from advice as you begin
planning for retirement. During this time, you'll be making some very important decisions that could make or break your
retirement timeline.

Get
⁠   your retirement plan⁠


How to retire
If you feel confident you can handle retirement planning on your own, here's your checklist of things to do.




See when you can realistically retire
It's not a simple question to answer, but running some numbers will give you a good idea about where you stand.

⁠Find out when you might have enough to retire



Learn how medical care could affect your expenses
Many of your day-to-day expenses in retirement will be similar to those you have currently. But one expense you'll have
to think about is your medical insurance.

⁠Learn more about health care costs in retirement




Learn how Social Security timing will affect your income
You can start collecting Social Security payments at age 62, but that's not the whole story. See how a variety of options
and strategies could affect your retirement income.

⁠See how your retirement age affects your Social Security benefits



Make a plan to pay off your debt
You may decide to retire before all your debt—for example, your mortgage—is paid off, and that's okay. Just make sure
you understand the implications and have a plan to pay it off.

⁠See how paying off debt can affect your retirement lifestyle




Keep your plan on track
As you get closer to retiring, make sure you're doing everything you can to set your savings up for success.

⁠
Set up your savings to get you to your goal⁠
Question 12 - Why should I save for retirement?
Consistent, dedicated saving might not be glamorous, but it will give you far more freedom and control over your lifestyle
down the road.


Social Security shouldn't be your only retirement plan
Social Security was never meant to be anyone's sole source of retirement income.

In fact, a 30-year-old making $50,000 per year today—and who might realistically expect to make substantially more by
the time he or she retires—can expect less than $22,000 per year from Social Security at age 67 (in today's dollars).

In the past, pensions often offered an additional source of income for retirees. But pension plans are becoming rare in
today's world, and it's more important than ever to take advantage of the opportunity to save for your future.



Keep in mind:
On average, Social Security payments make up only about 33% of Americans' retirement income.

Source: Social Security Administration.


Spending now could mean you'll pay for it later
Perhaps you'd rather spend your money on other things that are more fun than saving for retirement.

But because compounding can enhance the value of your savings, the "pain" of each dollar you save now can be greatly
outweighed by the flexibility you gain later.

Of course, we're not suggesting you'd be better off squeezing the last drop of enjoyment from your life.

But we think that knowing you'll be all set to meet your basic needs later—with enough left over to let you comfortably
do the things you look forward to in retirement—is worth going without a few treats now and then.



Do the math:
Choosing to spend less on certain expenses now could make a huge impact in the long run! For example, you could
spend $3,600 a year on payments for a new car during the next 5 years … or you could watch that money grow to
$80,000 over the next 40 years!*


Control what you can
In the end, the future of Social Security isn't the only thing that's out of your hands. Tax rates will almost certainly change
between now and your retirement date, and inflation will continue to increase prices over time. Other government
programs, like Medicare, might also change.

But there's one thing that only you can completely control: how much you save. Start now and you might be surprised at
how little you notice the sacrifice.

⁠See when you should start saving



What do others do?
Our report found that 42% of employees under age 25 were enrolled in their workplace retirement plans.
Source: Vanguard, How America Saves 2018. This study examined employer retirement plans (and their participants)
managed by Vanguard.



Question 13 - How can I save for retirement?
Wondering how to invest for retirement? It's not hard. In general: Automate everything you can, and check in once in a
while.


1. Put your savings on autopilot
If you're saving in a workplace plan, your contributions will likely be deducted from your paychecks.

You can automate your other retirement savings too. For example, set up automatic bank transfers to an IRA on a
monthly or weekly basis. This has the added benefit of taking the money from your account before you have the chance
to spend it!

Automatic transfers also ensure that you don't accidentally throw your savings plan off track. Forgetting a few
contributions a year can have a huge impact on your retirement balance, because those contributions will miss out on
compounding.

For example, if you planned to save $100 a month and missed two contributions every year until retirement, you could
wipe almost $33,000 off your final account balance—way more than the $8,000 in missed contributions.


Step up your contributions
Look for other ways to automate your savings as well. For example, see whether your workplace plan offers "step up"
contributions, which automatically increase your savings percentage once a year until you reach your target.

Since your salary will likely grow at the same time your contributions do, chances are that you won't even miss the
money!


2. Resist the urge to tinker with your accounts
Because saving for retirement is so critical, you might think you should maintain a tight focus on your accounts and what
they're doing.

But saving for retirement is more like a marathon than a sprint—it's going to take a while and it will occasionally be a little
monotonous. The best thing you can do is settle into a good saving rhythm.




Here are some saving don'ts:
Don't look for shortcuts.
Once you've spent time determining the best asset mix for you, be careful not to veer off course.

Keep in mind that, at any given time, certain types of investments will do better than others. If you constantly change
direction to take advantage, you could find yourself falling farther and farther behind.

Instead, stick with your plan and know that you'll get to the finish line in good time.

⁠Learn more about picking an asset mix that's right for you
Don't pay too much attention to the markets.
Downturns in the market might feel like being caught outside in a storm. But if you flee for cover every time there's a little
wind in your face, you'll miss out on the times when the wind is at your back.

Instead, force yourself to invest a consistent amount in the same mix of assets every week or month, no matter what's
happening on Wall Street.

That way, you ensure you're buying more of an investment when its price has fallen and less of it when it's up. Buy low,
sell high—sound familiar?

MAKE NO MISTAKE

Taking money from your account (or moving it to a cash investment) when your balance has dropped and then putting it
back when the market has already recovered is a guaranteed way to lose money.


Don't get distracted.
At some point, other uses for your money will probably start to compete for your attention. But keep in mind that as far
as financial goals go, experts agree that saving for retirement should be number one.

You might think there's no harm in putting your savings on hold for a little while, but remember that time is what makes
your savings so powerful, and you'll never get that time back.

Obviously, it's also not a great idea to take money you've already saved for retirement and use it for something else. If
you withdraw the money outright, you may have to pay income tax and penalties.

And even if you take a loan rather than a withdrawal, you'll hurt your retirement in the long run. The money you take as a
loan won't be available to grow while it's out of your 401(k) plan. That means less money for you to retire on.


Do the math:
For every $50,000 you borrow from your 401(k), you could lose over $10,000 for your retirement, even if you repay the
loan on time.*

*This hypothetical illustration does not represent the return on any particular investment and the rate is not guaranteed.
Assumes you repay the loan over 5 years, your 401(k) investments earn an average of 6% annually, the interest rate on
your loan is 4%, and you have 20 years from the time you pay off the loan until you retire.


3. Check in on your accounts—occasionally
Of course, you don't want to be completely in the dark about where you are on your retirement journey. At least once or
twice a year, take a look at your accounts and ask yourself these questions.



What's my current asset mix and how does it compare with my target?
When you open your retirement account, you'll decide how you want your money invested. In a diversified portfolio, the
investments you choose won't have as much impact on your account balance as your overall asset mix will. And that
asset mix can change without you lifting a finger!

For example, imagine you determined that 50% stocks/50% bonds was the best asset mix for you. If 4 years go by during
which stocks return an average of 8% a year and bonds 2%, you'll find that your new asset mix is more like 56%
stocks/44% bonds.
Why does this happen? The values of the stocks you own are rising faster than the values of the bonds, throwing your
overall mix out of whack.

Check your portfolio at least once a year, and if your mix is off by at least 5 percentage points, consider rebalancing.
There are a couple ways you can do this:

 • Exchange money from one type of asset to another. For example, you could exchange some money from your stock
   portfolio into your bond portfolio. This will immediately realign you with your target.
 • Use your contributions to buy more of one kind of asset. In the example above, you have too much in stocks and
   not enough in bonds. So you could direct all of your contributions to your bond investments until you're back in
   balance.



MAKE IT EASY


If you choose a target-date fund for your retirement savings, you won't have to worry about rebalancing back to your
target asset mix—it will be done automatically for you.




Am I comfortable with the amount of risk I'm taking?
You'll likely know the answer to this question even before you peek at your accounts. If market movements have made
you a nervous wreck, you may want to rethink your asset mix and consider something more conservative.

On the other hand, if you've grown comfortable with the risk inherent with investing, you might think about whether your
risk tolerance has become more aggressive.


Are my investments working as hard as they could be?
While choosing investments isn't as critical to your portfolio's performance as your asset mix, keep in mind that
investment costs reduce your returns. The less you pay for your funds, the more you keep in your pocket—it's that
simple.

When you're saving in an employer plan, you're restricted to choosing from the investments the plan offers. But if you've
left a job and have an old 401(k) or 403(b) account sitting around, think about whether rolling it over to an IRA could be a
good decision.

With an IRA, you can invest in any mutual fund, ETF, stock, or bond—giving you greater choice and a chance to lower
your investment costs.

⁠
See why investing costs are so important⁠

See
⁠   whether a rollover could be right for you⁠


Am I saving enough to reach my goal?
If you're still decades from retirement, this can be a tough question to answer (although there are some guidelines you
can follow).

But as you get years of investing under your belt, you can plug some numbers into a calculator and see where you are.

If the answer is "not even close," you'll have some work to do. Strong market performance can't make up for years of
paltry contributions (and you can't count on getting a streak of high returns anyway).
⁠
See if you'll have enough to retire⁠


Has my goal changed?
Several ingredients go into your retirement recipe—what age you plan to retire, how long you think you'll live, how much
you think you'll need to spend, what other sources of income you'll have, whether you plan to leave money to anyone…

Your personal ingredients will probably change over time. Remember to think about the effects of these changes on your
retirement goal.



Question 14 - What’s a rollover?
A rollover may entail a number of actions, most popularly the transfer of the holdings of one retirement plan to another
without creating a taxable event.



Question 15 - Should I open a Roth IRA, traditional IRA, or both?
When it comes to IRAs, there are 2 main types to choose from—Roth and traditional. Making that choice—and knowing
when and how much you can contribute—isn't always clear, so we want to provide some context around one of our most
commonly researched topics. Here's more information on 2 retirement options: Roth IRAs and traditional IRAs.


Common ground
A traditional IRA allows you to contribute money that can grow tax-deferred. A Roth IRA holds after-tax money you can
withdraw tax-free. They sound fundamentally different, but both accounts are designed to help you save for retirement.
They share other similarities too:

1. Age limit
In the past, you couldn't contribute to a traditional IRA after you reached the age of 70½. However, with the passing of
the Setting Every Community Up for Retirement Enhancement (SECURE) Act in 2019, you can now contribute to both a
Roth IRA and a traditional IRA (provided that you are otherwise eligible to contribute), no matter your age. SECURE 2.0,
signed into law in 2022, increased the required minimum distribution (RMD) age to 73* beginning in 2023 and will
increase it to 75 in 2033.

2. Contribution limits
For both traditional and Roth IRAs, the annual contribution limits for the 2022 tax year are $6,000 for those younger than
50 and $7,000 for those age 50 and older. The annual contribution limits for the 2023 tax year are $6,500 for those
younger than 50 and $7,500 for those age 50 and older. These are total amounts across all of your traditional and Roth
IRAs; you can't contribute the maximum amount to each account separately. Depending on your income, your
contribution limits may be lower.

3. Contribution deadline
Whether you're contributing to a traditional or a Roth, the deadline to contribute is the same for both accounts. In 2023
the deadline is April 18.

4. Transfer or Rollover
You can transfer your IRA account to another similarly registered IRA through a direct transfer. You can also withdraw
money from your account for 60 days if you roll it back into the same (or similarly registered) IRA. You can use this
60-day rollover option once every rolling 365 days. When you use the 60-day rollover option, taxes may be withheld
from the withdrawal so you’ll have to use other funds to roll over the full amount of the distribution.
Learn the differences
To better understand the differences between Roth and traditional IRAs, let's focus on 3 areas: deductions, taxes, and
withdrawals.


Traditional IRA
With a traditional IRA, you may be able to deduct your contributions (though the deductible amount could be reduced or
eliminated if you or your spouse are covered by an employer's retirement plan). When it's time to start withdrawing, your
deductible contributions and earnings are taxed as ordinary income. If you don't qualify for deductible contributions, you
can make a nondeductible contribution; the nondeductible portion won't be taxed upon withdrawal. Withdrawals work
like this:

 • If you withdraw from your traditional IRA before you've reached age 59½, you'll pay ordinary income tax on the
    amount that represents the pre-tax portion of the distribution as well as a 10% early distribution penalty (unless an
    exception applies).
 • If you withdraw after you've reached 59½, you won't be penalized, but you'll still pay ordinary income tax on the
   amount that represents the pre-tax portion of the distribution.
 • When you reach age 73*, you'll be required to start taking distributions from your traditional IRA. The amount you
   withdraw for your RMD is calculated based on your life expectancy and the balance of your account at the end of the
   previous year.


Roth IRA
Contributions you make to your Roth IRA aren't deductible. This means withdrawals of your Roth contributions (your
"basis") will always come out tax- and penalty-free. Think of it like layers of a cake: When you take your first bite (or in
this case, your first distribution), the topmost piece with the frosting is your basis. Beneath that layer? Your earnings. You
can make tax-free withdrawals as long as you're age 59½ or older and you've owned your Roth IRA for at least 5 years.**
There are no mandatory withdrawals for a Roth IRA because your contributions have already been taxed—meaning you
can withdraw your savings at your leisure in retirement.


Eligibility
Any individual with earned income (or who has a spouse with earned income) can contribute to a traditional IRA.
However, the amount you can contribute to a Roth IRA could be reduced—or even eliminated—based on your modified
adjusted gross income (MAGI).

If you can't make the maximum Roth IRA contribution because your MAGI is nearing the upper limit of the annual income
range, you may still be able to make the maximum IRA contribution by splitting your contribution between a Roth IRA and
a traditional IRA.

⁠
Learn more about income limits⁠


Summary
Whether you're eligible to contribute to a Roth, a traditional, or both, opening this type of account is a step toward a
better retirement. Your eligibility may depend on your income—so if you aren't sure what to do, reach out to a tax advisor
to help you make an informed decision.



Question 16 - How does employer match work?
Employer matching of your 401(k) contributions means that your employer contributes a certain amount to your
retirement savings plan based on the amount of your annual contribution.

Depending on the terms of your employer's 401(k) plan, your contributions to your retirement savings may be matched
by employer contributions in several ways. Typically, employers match a percentage of employee contributions up to a
specific portion of the total salary. Occasionally, employers may elect to match employee contributions up to a certain
dollar amount, regardless of employee compensation.1


KEY TAKEAWAYS
 • When an employer matches your contributions, they add a certain amount to your 401(k) account in addition to what
   you contribute.1
 • One way employers determine matching contributions is to match a percentage of an employee's contribution, up to
   a certain limit.2
 • Most mid-to-large-sized companies offer some kind of retirement benefit.

 • Employees may contribute up to $22,500 to their 401(k) in 2023.3

 • Not taking advantage of an employer match is the equivalent of leaving free money on the table.



Matching Contributions: How Much and When
The specific terms of 401(k) plans vary widely. Other than the necessity to adhere to certain required contribution limits
and withdrawal regulations dictated by the Employee Retirement Income Security Act (ERISA), the sponsoring employer
determines the specific terms of each 401(k) plan.4

Your employer may elect to use a very generous matching formula or choose not to match employee contributions at all.
Some 401(k) plans offer far more generous matches than others. Whatever the match is, it amounts to free money added
to your retirement savings, so it is best to take advantage of it if offered.

Refer to the terms of your plan to verify if and when your employer makes matching contributions. Not all employer
contributions to employee 401(k) plans are the result of matching. Employers may elect to make regular deferrals to
employee plans regardless of employee contributions, though this is not particularly common.


Employer Matching Contribution Formulas
Most often, employers match employee contributions up to a percentage of annual income. This limit may be imposed in
one of a few different ways. Your employer may elect to match 100% of your contributions up to a percentage of your
total compensation or to match a percentage of contributions up to the limit. Though the total limit on employer
contributions remains the same, the latter scenario requires you to contribute more to your plan to receive the maximum
possible match.

Some employers may match up to a certain dollar amount, limiting their liability to highly compensated employees
regardless of income. For example, an employer may elect to match only the first $5,000 of your employee contributions.

"Your employer could match 100% or even a dollar amount based upon some formula, but this can get expensive and
normally owners want their employees to take some ownership of their retirement while still providing an incentive," says
Dan Stewart, CFA®, president, Revere Asset Management Inc., in Dallas, TX.



The IRS requires that all 401(k) plans take a nondiscrimination test annually to ensure that highly compensated
employees don’t benefit more from tax-deferred contributions.5
How Matching Works
Assume your employer offers a 100% match on all your contributions each year, up to a maximum of 3% of your annual
income. If you earn $60,000, the maximum amount your employer would contribute each year is $1,800. To
maximize this benefit, you must also contribute $1,800. If you contribute more than 3% of your salary, the additional
contributions are unmatched.

A partial matching scheme with an upper limit is more common. Assume that your employer matches 50% of your
contributions, equal to up to 6% of your annual salary. If you earn $60,000, your contributions equal to 6% of your salary
($3,600) are eligible for matching. However, your employer only matches 50%, meaning the total matching benefit is still
capped at $1,800. Under this formula, you must contribute twice as much to your retirement to reap the full benefit of
employer matching.

If your employer matches a certain dollar amount, as in the first example, you must contribute that amount to maximize
benefits, regardless of what percentage of your annual income it may represent.



Contribution Limits
Employee and Employer Combined
All deferrals are subject to an annual contribution limit dictated by the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) regardless of
whether contributions to your 401(k) come from you and/or from employer matching. The total contribution amount
allowed for all 401(k) accounts held by the same employee (regardless of current employment status) is $66,000 in 2023
or 100% of compensation, whichever is less. That's $5,000 higher than the 2022 limit of $61,000.6




Employee Alone
Elective salary deferrals made by employees alone are limited to $22,500 in tax year 2023, up from $20,500 in tax year
2022.2 A saver can contribute up to the annual salary deferral limit to their 401(k) each year, and an employer can match
or contribute up to the combined IRS annual limit referred to above. The sum your employer matches does not count
toward your annual salary deferral limit.

Keep in mind that these figures can be updated each year by the IRS to keep pace with inflation. The announcement of
the following year's various limits is usually made in October or November.


The IRS also allows those who are age 50 and over to make catch-up contributions in addition to their normal
contribution. These are designed to encourage employees nearing retirement to bulk up their savings. The catch-up
contribution amount is $7,500 in 2023, up from $6,500 in 2022.6

Therefore, for these individuals, The individual total deferral amount for these individuals is $30,000 ($22,500 + $7,500).
The combined employer/employee limit is $73,500 ($66,000 + $7,500).

You don't pay taxes on matching contributions until you withdraw them in retirement.7


401(k) Vesting Schedules
In addition to reviewing your 401(k) plan's matching requirements, educate yourself about your plan's vesting schedule.
A vesting schedule dictates the degree of ownership you have in employer contributions based on the number of years
of your employment.

Even if your employer has a very generous matching scheme, you may forfeit some or all of those contributions if your
employment is terminated—either voluntarily or involuntarily—before a certain number of years has elapsed.
Any contributions you make to your 401(k) account yourself are 100% vested at all times and cannot be forfeited.8

"A typical schedule gives an employee a percentage of ownership that steadily increases in lock-step with the
employee's tenure. According to the Bureau of Labor Statistics, the average number of years to be fully vested is five,"
according to Mark Hebner, founder and president of Index Fund Advisors Inc., in Irvine, Calif., and author of "The 12-Step
Recovery Program for Active Investors."9


What Does Employer Matching Mean for My 401(k)?
It means that you can receive the enormous financial benefit of added money being deposited into your retirement
savings plan at work and earning on your behalf for years. It's something you should make the most of if your company
offers it. Specifically, the term "matching" refers to your employer contributing to your account a percentage of your total
contribution or income, up to a certain limit.



Can My Employer Contribute to My 401(k) Even If I Don't?
Yes. Employers can make non-matching contributions to your 401(k) retirement savings account even if you don't
contribute. For instance, an employer might decide to do so if a company's growth in revenue or profits for the year has
been good.


Is There a Limit on the Combined Employer and Employee Contribution Amount?
The total amount for a combined employer/employee contribution is $66,000 in 2023. Catch-up contributions of $7,500
for 2023 increase the limit to $73,500 for employees who are 50 years old or over.6


The Bottom Line
One of the great advantages to those Americans saving for retirement through their workplace 401(k) accounts is the
added money that they can accumulate by way of employer matching. Employers may or may not offer the benefit of
matching. But if they do, try your best to contribute all that's needed to get as much of these additional funds as you can
annually. By doing so, you can boost your savings potential for years to come.



Question 17 - What is vesting?
What Is Vesting?
A vesting schedule is an incentive program for employees that gives them benefits, usually stock options, when they
have contractually fulfilled a specified term of employment with the company. The benefits can also be other assets,
such as retirement funds. Vesting is a way for employers to keep top-performing employees at the company.

A vesting schedule is also commonly used in inheritance law and real estate.



Question 18 - How does vesting work?
KEY TAKEAWAYS
 • When an employee is vested in employer-matching retirement funds or stock options, she has nonforfeitable rights
    to those assets.
 • The amount in which an employee is vested often increases gradually over a period of years until the employee is
    100% vested.
 • A common vesting schedule is three to five years.



Understanding Vesting
In the context of retirement plan benefits, vesting gives employees rights to employer-provided assets over time, which
gives the employees an incentive to perform well and remain with a company. The vesting schedule set up by a company
determines when employees acquire full ownership of the asset.

Generally, nonforfeitable rights accrue based on how long an employee has worked for a company. One example of
vesting is seen in how money is awarded to an employee via a 401(k) company match. Such matching dollars usually
take years to vest, meaning an employee must stay with the company long enough to be eligible to receive them.

Vesting within stock bonuses offers employers a valuable employee-retention tool. For example, an employee might
receive 100 restricted stock units as part of an annual bonus. To entice this valued employee to remain with the company
for the next five years, the stock vests according to the following schedule: 25 units in the second year after the bonus,
25 units in year three, 25 units in year four and 25 units in year five. If the employee leaves the company after year three,
only 50 units would be vested, and the other 50 would be forfeited.

For some benefits, vesting is immediate. Employees are always 100% vested in their salary-deferral contributions to their
retirement plans as well as SEP and SIMPLE employer contributions. Employer contributions to an employee’s
401(k) plan may vest immediately. Or they may vest after several years using either a cliff vesting schedule, which gives
the employee ownership of 100% of the employer’s contributions after a certain number of years or using a graded
vesting schedule, which gives the employee ownership of a percentage of the employer’s contribution each year.1

Traditional pension plans might have a five-year cliff vesting schedule or a three- to seven-year graded vesting
schedule.

Just because you are fully vested in your employer’s contributions to your plan does not mean you can withdraw that
money whenever you want. You are still subject to the plan’s rules, which generally require you to reach retirement age
before making penalty-free withdrawals.



Employees are always 100% vested in their own contributions to an employer-sponsored retirement plan.1


Special Considerations
⁠
Vesting is common in wills and bequests and often takes the form of a set waiting period to finalize bequests following
the death of the testator. This waiting period before vesting helps reduce conflicts that could arise over the exact time of
death and the possibility of double-taxation if multiple heirs die after a disaster.

Startup companies often offer grants of common stock or access to an employee stock option plan to employees,
service providers, vendors, board members, or other parties as part of their compensation. To encourage loyalty among
employees and also keep them engaged and focused on the company's success, such grants or options usually are
subject to a vesting period during which they cannot be sold. A common vesting period is three to five years.



Question 19 - What is risk tolerance and why does it matter?
What Is Risk Tolerance?
Risk tolerance is the degree of risk that an investor is willing to endure given the volatility in the value of an investment.
An important component in investing, risk tolerance often determines the type and amount of investments that an
individual chooses.
Greater risk tolerance is often synonymous with investment in stocks, equity funds, and exchange-traded funds (ETFs),
while lower risk tolerance is often associated with the purchase of bonds, bond funds, and income funds.


KEY TAKEAWAYS
 • Risk tolerance is a measure of the degree of loss an investor is willing to endure within their portfolio.
 • Stock volatility, market swings, economic or political events, and regulatory, or interest rate changes affect an
   investor's tolerance for risk.
 • Age, investment goals, and income contribute to an investor's risk tolerance.
 • An aggressive investor commonly has a higher risk tolerance and is willing to risk more money for the possibility of
   better, yet unknown, returns.
 • A conservative investor commonly has a lower risk tolerance and seeks investments with guaranteed returns.



Understanding Risk Tolerance
All investments involve some degree of risk and knowing their risk tolerance level helps investors plan their entire
portfolio, determining how they invest. Based on how much risk they can tolerate, investors are classified as aggressive,
moderate, and conservative.

Risk tolerance assessments are available online, including risk-related surveys or questionnaires. An investor may also
want to review historical returns for different asset classes to determine the volatility of the various financial instruments.

One factor that affects risk tolerance includes the time horizon for an investor. Having a financial goal with a long time
horizon, an investor may have greater returns by carefully investing in higher-risk assets, such as stocks. Conversely,
lower-risk cash investments may be appropriate for short-term financial goals.1

An investor's future earning capacity, and the presence of other assets such as a home, pension, Social Security, or an
inheritance affect risk tolerance. An investor can take greater risk with investable assets when they have other, more
stable sources of funds available. Additionally, investors with a larger portfolio may be more tolerant to risk, as the
percentage of loss is much less in a larger portfolio when compared to a smaller portfolio.



Order your copy of Investopedia's What To Do With $10,000 magazine for more wealth-building advice.


Aggressive Risk Tolerance
An aggressive investor, or one with a high-risk tolerance, is willing to risk losing money to get potentially better results.1
Aggressive investors tend to be market-savvy with an understanding of the volatility of securities and follow strategies
for achieving higher than average returns.

Their investments emphasize capital appreciation rather than income or preserving their principal investment. This
investor's asset allocation commonly includes stocks and little or no allocation to bonds or cash.


Moderate Risk Tolerance
Moderate investors want to grow their money without losing too much. Their goal is to weigh opportunities and risks and
this investor's approach is sometimes described as a “balanced” strategy.

Commonly, moderate investors develop a portfolio that includes a mixture of stocks and bonds, perhaps as a 50/50 or
60/40 structure.2
Conservative Risk Tolerance
Conservative investors are willing to accept little to no volatility in their investment portfolios. Retirees or those close to
retirement age are often included in this category as they may be unwilling to risk a loss to their principal investment and
have a short-term investment strategy.

A conservative investor targets vehicles that are guaranteed and highly liquid. Risk-averse individuals commonly opt for
bank certificates of deposit (CDs), money markets, or U.S. Treasuries for income and preservation of capital.



What Is an Example of a 60/40 Portfolio Structure?
A moderate risk-tolerant investor may choose to invest in a 60/40 structure which may include a 60% investment in
stocks, 30% in bonds, and 10% in cash.2


What Financial Instruments are Considered High Risk Investments?
⁠
High-risk investments include investing in options, initial public offerings (IPO), and foreign emerging markets.


How Does Risk Tolerance Compare to Risk Capacity?
While risk tolerance measures an investor's willingness to take risk, an investor's risk capacity measures their financial
ability to take a risk.



Question 20 - Should I borrow from my retirement plan?
The purpose of retirement planning is to finance your post-work years, allowing you to maintain or improve upon your
pre-retirement standard of living. As such, your financial/retirement planner will encourage you to save as much as you
can in your qualified retirement account(s) and to defer making withdrawals for as long as is permitted under the plan.

Taking funds from your retirement account may adversely affect your retirement savings, but there are instances when
doing so makes sense. Below, we'll look at some of the pros and cons of borrowing from your retirement account.


Loans vs. Withdrawals
First, let's distinguish. Taking a loan is different from making a withdrawal from a retirement account. Both reduce the
assets in your portfolio, of course. If your account holds $100,000 and you take out $40,000, you will have a remaining
balance of $60,000.

However, with withdrawal, you are not required to return the amount distributed from the plan, whereas a loan must be
repaid to the plan in order to avoid it being considered a taxable event.1?


Diversification
Diversification is an important part of retirement planning. Retirement planners usually recommend that assets be
diversified according to the risk tolerance of the individual client. While planning is based on the past and projected
performance of assets, the risk must be considered, except when it comes to assets that produce a guaranteed
rate of return or guaranteed interest.

One of the drawbacks of borrowing from your retirement plan is that the loan amount is no longer being invested and
could thus mess up the diversification ratios until the sum is returned to the plan.
However, when you take a loan, the loan amount will be treated as an asset in the plan, as it will be replaced by your
promissory note. While the amount will not be diversified, it will receive a guaranteed rate of return, which could be an
average of the prime rate plus 2%.

Remember that diversification comes with risks, and the possibility exists that you could have a negative return on your
investments unless some of your investments have a guaranteed rate of return. Therefore, the advantage of taking a loan
from your account is that you will receive a guaranteed rate of return on the loan amount.


Double Taxation
One of the arguments against taking a loan from your retirement plan is that the amount you repay in interest will be
double taxed. This is because the loan repayments, including the interest, will be made with amounts that have already
been taxed and will be taxed when withdrawn from the retirement account.

“As soon as your after-tax loan repayments hit your 401(k) plan, they become pretax, and when you retire and start
taking distributions, your loan repayments will be taxed again,” says Michael Mezheritskiy, president, Milestone Asset
Management Group, Avon, Connecticut. “Hence, double taxation.”

Let's look at an example.


Assumption No. 1
 • You contribute $100,000 to your retirement plan on a pretax basis.
 • The $100,000 accrues $10,000 in earnings.

 • You have never taken a loan from your retirement plan balance.

The $110,000 will be taxed at your income tax rate when withdrawn from your retirement account. Because the $100,000
came from pretax monies, and the earnings of $10,000 accrued on a pretax basis, the $110,000 will be taxed only when
withdrawn.


Assumption No. 2
 • You contribute $100,000 to your retirement plan on a pretax basis.

 • The $100,000 accrues $8,500 in earnings.

 • You took a loan of $20,000 from the plan, which you have repaid.

 • The interest repaid on the loan is $1,500.

The $110,000 will be taxed at your income tax rate when withdrawn from your retirement account. Since the $100,000
came from pretax monies, and the $8,500 earnings accrued on a pretax basis, the $108,500 will be taxed only when
withdrawn.

However, the $1,500 that came from interest repayment on the loan was repaid with amounts that were already taxed,
and it will be taxed again when withdrawn from your retirement account. As a result, you will be paying taxes twice on
the $1,500.



Consequences of Failing to Make Repayments
With a few narrowly defined exceptions, loans taken from your retirement account must be repaid at least quarterly, and
they must be repaid in level, amortized amounts of principal and interest.2? Failure to meet these requirements could
result in the loan being deemed a taxable transaction.3? It would also mean that you lose the opportunity to accrue
tax-deferred earnings on the amount and to make diversified investments with it.
   “I think it is always best not to borrow from a retirement plan unless it is a last resort," says Allan Katz, president of
   Comprehensive Wealth Management Group, LLC, in Staten Island, New York. "Even though doing so is positioned as a
   tax-free way to access the capital, it doesn’t always work out that way.”

If you leave your employer before the loan is repaid, you may be required to repay the entire balance within a short
period, instead of over the established schedule. If you are unable to repay the balance, the plan may treat it as a
distribution (offset).

The loan would thus be treated as ordinary income unless you have available funds to replace the amount as a rollover
contribution to an eligible retirement plan within 60 days after the date the offset occurs, or you are eligible to complete
a direct rollover of the promissory note to another qualified plan.4? Loan balances that are treated as distributions are
not only subject to income tax, but also may be subject to the 10% early-distribution penalty.3?


Why Take a Loan from Your Retirement Plan?
You should take loans from your retirement plan only if you have exhausted your other financing options, or if the loan
will help to improve your finances. For instance, if you had credit card balances of $20,000 with an interest rate of 15%
and you could afford to pay $400 per month, it might make good financial sense to take a loan from your retirement plan
in order to pay off your credit card balances.

Let's compare the two scenarios.


Table 1
Scenario 1               Scenario 1 Costs   Scenario 2             Scenario 2 Costs

Retirement Plan Loan $20,000.00             Credit Card Balance    $20,000.00
Amount

Interest Rate            4.5%               Interest Rate          15%

Payment Frequency        Biweekly           Payment Frequency      Monthly

Payment Amount           $171.94            Payment Amount         $400.00

Repayment Period         Five Years         Repayment Period (if   Six Years 7 Months
                                            repayment is
                                            $400/month)

Total Interest           $2,351.41          Total Interest         $11,582.00



While it is true that the $2,351.41 you pay in interest on your loan amount will be double taxed, the obvious benefit is that
the interest will be repaid to you, instead of to a credit card company, and the amount you pay in interest will be
significantly lower.

If you do take a loan from your retirement account to pay off your credit card balance, make sure you take steps to avoid
accruing new indebtedness under the credit cards. Check with your financial planner for assistance in this area—they
can also help you ensure that your credit score is not adversely affected.

Another good reason for taking a loan from your retirement account is to use the loan amount to purchase a home. As
industry trends show, amounts invested in your home provide a significant return on investment. Furthermore, you could
also use your home to finance your retirement, whether by selling the home or by taking a reverse mortgage.

“I recommend borrowing from the retirement plan for capital expenditures such as home repairs or to start a business,
and for debt consolidation in certain situations,” says Wes Shannon, CFP®, founder of SJK Financial Planning, LLC, in
Hurst, Texas. “Never borrow from a retirement plan for education expenses. The government makes easy, low-cost loans
available for college, but not for your retirement.”


Check Your Plan Provisions
Not all qualified plans allow loans, and some that do will only allow them for special purposes such as purchasing,
building, or rebuilding a primary residence, or paying for higher education or medical expenses. Others allow loans for
any reason. Your plan administrator will be able to explain the loan provisions under your retirement account.


Replenish Your Account After You Take a Loan
If you must take a loan from your retirement account, try to continue making contributions and increase the amounts you
contribute, where possible. This may be a challenge, as you will also be required to make loan repayments, and those
repayments will not be considered contributions to your retirement account. However, it will help you restore your
nest egg much faster.

Most plans will allow you to accelerate your loan repayments, which will help to restore your plan balance more quickly.
Be sure to factor your loan repayment into your budget. This will keep you from overspending.


The Bottom Line
You should not take a loan from your retirement account unless it is an absolute necessity or it makes good financial
sense. Determining whether a loan is right for you requires an assessment of your financial profile and a comparison of
the loan option with other options, such as taking a loan from a financial institution (if available) or paying off credit card
balances over time.

Be sure to discuss the matter with your financial planner, so that they can help you decide which option is best for you.
